So user input validation is an important topic for example at the moment.
I can create a new place and simply leave out the title share an empty field and if I sent this it creates
a new place with an empty title I certainly don't want that.
I want to validate the data I get on the incoming request and actually sent back an error if it doesn't
match my expectations to implement validation.
I'll use a third party library express validator I'll use that because manually validating it here with
if checks where it check if title once we trim it to remove X whitespace.
If the length is empty in which case I sent back an error.
Doing all that is possible but very cumbersome.
I don't want to write dozens of checks to check different conditions.
Instead this library will make it easier.
It's built for express.
It gives us middleware so that we can register to run various validations on the incoming data.
You can learn all about this package on this page here on their official documentation but of course
here.
I will also show you some of the most important features now most importantly we need to install it.
So let's stop that running server and run npm install dash to ash save because it is a dependency we
need in our code.
EXPRESS dash validator and hit enter and this will now installed this third party package into your
project and thereafter you can restart NPM start.
Now we can add validation and the first step forward it is actually in your roots file here in places
roots there.
I have two routes where I want to validate the input and that are my post and my patched rows.
I don't need to validate these parameters here because if an invalid ideas passed here I'm simply not
able to identify data and we're already sending back an error response in that case already.
So I only need to care about post and patch here there.
I want to make sure that the data which isn't a request body and that is what it's really all about
and want to validate my request body data.
If debt is valid so how does this package work.
Well first of all we need to import it.
We import it but we only imported it a bit differently with object restructuring.
I require express validator here and I could simply imported all into one object validator for example
Deadwood work.
But here I actually only need one specific method.
So I will use object restructuring and import that check method by the way.
We could have done something similar here for Express router I could have implemented just Roger like
this and called it like that down there.
Dad would also work.
That's basically what I'm doing here.
I'm mixing these syntax is all that you showed in both.
This is regular javascript syntax and yet so we need to check method here.
Now the check method actually is a method or a function we can execute and it will return a new middleware
configured for our validation requirements.
Now we need it here for example on this post request.
Now one thing I haven't taught you thus far is that when you register a middleware like this you actually
always have to is filter.
This path here as the first argument but there after you're not limited to one middleware you can register
multiple Middleware is on the same H to the p method path combination and they will simply be executed
from left to right here in your arguments.
So here I want to add a new middleware a new parameter and you argument I pass to this method call which
will be this check function.
Now here we execute it.
We don't just point edit.
Instead we executed and check then takes the name off the field in your request body which you want
to validate.
So in my case for example the title field.
Now it will return a new middleware function which is then registered here and which is then executed
by express.
But this middleware function now needs to be configured.
You could say right now I'm saying I want to check the title but I'm not saying how I want to check
it.
Well I want to ensure that it's not empty.
That is my requirement here.
For Dad we can change various methods on the result of this check method for example the is empty method
this overall returns a middleware which is given to express so to say which checks for title to be empty.
Now I went to the opposite.
I want dead it's not empty and conveniently there is a not method you can chain in between and this
reads like plain English and yet right.
We check that the title is not empty and that overall gives us a new middleware which is added for post
requests that target slash API slash places slash nothing.
And it will run before our controller runs now it's not the only check I want to perform so I will add
more middleware and instead of adding multiple arguments we can also group that together into an array.
We could add multiple arguments but I want to make it clear that all these millionaires belong together.
So to say they're all related to validation and then want to check the description here as well.
I want to check that description is of a specific length.
Now this takes the argument where I configured this with an object that past to is length and then we
can set a max length and interesting for me here a min length of five characters does automatically
means that it must not be empty but not being empty is not enough.
It also needs to have at least five characters.
I also want to check the address and for the address I want to check that it's not empty because I'm
not sure maybe we do have a valid address.
That's only one character long so it should just not be empty.
Now I will not validate the coordinates because later we will not get them from the client anyways instead
later I will add a function here on the server where I reach out to a Google API and translate the address
which I get to coordinates and if Dad fails I throw an error here on the server we'll do it as a little
bit later.
So for the moment let's just focus on this validation here.
Now that's the validation for creating a new place.
If we now safe that we can give it a try let's try create a new place where the title is empty it still
works.
So what did we do wrong.
Well actually express validator consists of two parts you registered as middleware but this alone does
not return an error.
Instead now you have to go to your controller so to the middleware function which is executed upon your
incoming request and then there you need to add something as well.
You need to import something from that express validator package.
And again I will use object D structuring to import just what I need here.
We need the validation result function.
Then in the middleware functions which are triggered upon your routes that have validation added to
them right at the beginning you can call validation result as a function and pass the request object
to it.
And now what this function will do is it will look into this request object and see if there are any
validation errors which were detected based on your setup here so this will return you an errors object
so to say now this object has a method is empty which you can call.
And if this is not true we know it's not empty which means we do have errors and in this case we can
throw a new H to the p error where we say invalid inputs past.
Please check your data and add a status code of 422.
Now actually these errors.
Object has a bit more data which is while logged here and you could all attached this to our response
you could send the response here with a status code all 422 and for example not just add your message
but also more details about the errors.
If you wanted to hear.
I'll go with the default error handling and just sentence generic response message here.
So with that if we now safeties and we try creating this again now it fails.
We get this error and the 422 error code and indeed here now in the console we see some output we see
we have these errors object and then there we have detailed information about the errors we see that
for the title field we had a invalid value.
Now you can configure does in more detail if you wanted to add to official docs of express validator
are the place to go to learn how to add your own error message as ends on.
So that's something you can do.
I'm happy with this basic validation we have here but of course I also want to add it to this patch
request and that is a great challenge for you not just for the patch request but also for the user routes
and there think about which routes really need validation and then come up with some validation rules
that make sense to you.
Also have a look at the official documentation here to find out how you can validate in the next lecture
will implement all these validation steps together.